In this demonstration, you will learn how to create and push tags.
Let's switch to Visual Studio.
As you can see, we work as Julia.
In the previous clip, she has implemented the PaperCupsInStock feature.
She has merged her changes to the master branch.
As you can see, we are here on the master branch.
Let's click on this branch in the status bar and let's select here View History.
Here in this history,
you can see that Julia has added the PaperCupsInStock property and then
she has merged that feature to the master branch.
Now she wants to create a tag for this latest commit of the master branch.
So let's go to Team Explorer.
As you can see, Team Explorer has here a Tags page.
So let's click on this to navigate to the Tags page.
Here you can click on New Tag to create a new tag.
Let's do this.
Let's enter a tag name.
Let's say this is version 0.5, and let's enter a tag message.
Let's write here Version 0.5 with paper cups in stock.
Then you can say here that you want to create a tag against the
latest commit this current branch points to,
and you can click the Create Tag button to create the tag.
So let's click it.
Now you see we have here the tag version 0.5.
Let's go back to this history view, and let's click here the refresh button.
Now you can see the tag also in this history view.
If you don't want to see tags here, you can click this button.
So when I click this, you see the tag disappears.
Let's check it again to see the tags.
You can also create tags directly in this history view for any commit.
So let's say, for example,
that we want to create a tag for this commit where
Thomas has implemented the quit command,
and also the help message from Julia.
So let's right-click this commit and let's select here Create Tag.
Now we are, again, in the Team Explorer,
and now we are here in the Create Tag section for this current commit.
So let me just cancel this, and let's go to home.
Instead of using the Create Tag context menu in this history view,
let's just double-click the commit,
and this will open the Commit Details in Team Explorer.
Let me pin this so that you can see this.
When I double-click a commit, you can see it opens up in Team Explorer.
So now let's select this commit, and now let's click here on Create Tag.
Let me cancel again.
Let's right-click, and let's select Create Tag,
and you will see that it just opens up this create
tag view on the current commit.
I click it, and you see the create tag view is open.
Now let's enter here a tag name.
Let's call it version 0.4, and let's enter here the tag message,
Version 0.4 with quit command.
Now let's click on Create Tag to create this new tag.
Let's unpin Team Explorer, and let's click refresh in the history view,
and now you can see this tag also here on that
commit that we have just selected.
Now Julia wants to push these tags to the remote repository.
So let's go to Team Explorer, and let's navigate to the Tags page.
Here in the Tags page, you can right-click a tag to push that tag individually,
or you can click up here on Push All to push all the
local tags to the remote repository.
Let's do this.
Let's click here on Push All, and now you see Successfully pushed to origin.
Now imagine your customers are using version 0.4 of
the WiredBrainCoffee.ShopInfoTool, and they found a bug in your software.
Then you can create a branch from the tag to implement a hotfix on that branch.
As you can see,
here you can just select a tag version from which you want to create a branch.
All right, so far to tags.
In the next clip,
we will switch back to the user Thomas and we will continue to work on the coffee shop commands feature branch.